# Simple Transactions Engine

## What it does

Processes transactions from csv file, and outputs accounts' balances to csv file.

Handles a few basic transactions:
- deposit
- withdrawal
- dispute
- resolve
- chargeback

There's a sample transactions.csv file to start with.

## Running

To run the main application, use:

`cargo run -- transactions.csv > account.csv`

To run unit tests, use:

`cargo test`

To run benchmarks, type in terminal:

`cargo bench`

## Rules

1. Deposit - add money to the account
2. Withdrawal - remove money from the account
3. Dispute - dispute a transaction
4. Resolve - resolve a dispute
5. Chargeback - chargeback a dispute

To simulate real-world scenario, when certain amount is disputed and held, 
this engine won't allow to withdraw more than currently available amount. (Check out `hold()` function in `account.rs`).

## Design choices

1. This engine is a CLI application, structured as library.
2. The flow is CLI command → stream CSV from bytes to structs → process transactions → output accounts state and balance to csv.
3. Additional Ledger struct holding accounts state and transaction history for chargebacks.
4. Enum-based error handling and transaction type and state.
5. Sequential read of transactions from csv - I assume chronological order of transactions.
6. I feel the library should keep the unit test coverage at least at 80% level, so this repo provides about 84% coverage for the hottest code. To run them, use `cargo test`.
7. Included benchmark file. To run it, use `cargo bench --bench transaction_benchmarks`.

## Technical choices

1. No async - in order to handle big traffic of TCP connections sending csv files,
this engine processes transactions synchronously. Async overhead would slow it down considerably.
2. To maximize performance, no threading is used in this scenario. I assume ledger as a single source of truth for given csv provider.
3. Stream processing - non-blocking in memory stream of files. This allows processing even very big files as a stream without crashing.
4. Parse from bytes to structs - zero alloc csv parsing. This omits standard csv→string_alloc→struct parsing.
5. Use `FxHashMap` for more performant hasher than standard HashMap.
6. Amount - for efficient handling of 4-decimal places amounts. Faster than rust-decimal, but very specific for given case. Contains compiler-inlined `checked_add` and `checked_sub` functions for basic operations.
7. Amount operations guarded with custom `NumericOverflow` error.

## AI usage

1. AI generated `benches/transaction_benchmarks.rs` file to measure the code and help me improve performance.
2. Initially I covered about 45% code with unit tests. Based on already done tests AI generated more tests to cover >= 80% codebase.
3. Most of in-code docs were generated by AI based on written logic to mimic documented library.
